Cybersecurity can seem to be a large and unwieldy field. In a way, it is.
However, security practitioners generally
specialize in a smaller, more manageable segment.
This allows you to really understand the core principles of your area of responsibility.
For instance, if an application suddenly becomes intermittently accessible,
business unit will often ask if there's a firewall.
However, you'll know that if there's an intermittent issue,
it's usually not network related,
the bits either flow or they don't.
A firewall either allows, organize.
Once you've lived with solutions you put in place,
you'll develop an inherent intuition how they work.
Just like once you've owned the same car for years,
you recognize the various sounds it makes much better than a friend that borrows the car.
It takes time, but take good notes, investigate your issues,
and before you know it, you'll be providing helpful advice
to your organization right off the top of your head.